# Sprint 1

## Kanban
Watch the video found [here](https://www.atlassian.com/agile/kanban). 

## git
Review some of the most prevelant git branching stategies 
[here](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/topics/gitlab_flow.html). GitLab flow seems to be really 
well situated for DevOps; however, we do not need all of options it offers. For this training, 
we will be using GitHub flow. The `master` branch will be protected meaning that we will not 
be able to push/merge to it. The only way we can update it is through a Pull Request (PR).

## Terminology
- Continuous Integration (CI)
  - Continous Integration is the first of a three step process involved in taking software products from an idea through development to being delivered to clients and ultimately used by end users.  Because the typical software project involves multiple programmers working together in code production, maintaining a fluid system devoid of code conflicts can be very challenging. CI uses automated tools to facilitate the merging of code from multiple contributors in a cohesive, smooth way.  Source code version control is an integral aspect of CI and is supplemented by various system checks, like automated code quality tests and syntax style review tools.  Effective CI is integrated within an agile software development workflow framework and allows development tasks to be completed independently and in parallel amongst the various developers.  Some of the core benefits of CI are enhanced scaling, improved feedback loop, and enhanced communication.  CI enhances scaling by mitigating many organizational dependencies that typically occur between the development of the individual features of a software product. It enables developers to work on software features in isolation having full assurance that their code will be seamlessly integrated into the rest of the codebase.  CI improves the feedback loop by decreasing the amount of time it takes to integrate code changes so product teams can test ideas and product designs on a more consistent basis with faster results.  This also leads allows developers to address bugs or potential issues much quicker.  Finally, CI enhances the overall communication on a product by introducing pull request workflows.  Pull request workflows provide a mechanism for teams to observe and comment on code throughout the many stages of product development.  This motivates a greater level of team collaboration as the software products progress through the CI pipeline.
- Continuous Deployment (CD)
  - Continuous Deployment is a software release mechanism that utilizes automated testing frameworks to ensure that a codebase is correct and stable before immediate autonomous deployment within a production enviroment.  Rather than moving software from one machine to another in order to test its efficacy as was done historically, CD provides tools that automate this entire process cutting down on infrastructure overhead.  CD provides significant productivity enhancements for modern software companies and allows businesses to quickly respond to ever changing market demands by rapidly deploying and validating new sottware ideas and features.  If end users report bugs or software issues, teams can respond to customer feedback in real time to deploy solutions.  New software features are made available to the customers as soon as the code is pushed.  CD involves 3 key tools: automated testing, rolling deployments, monitoring and alerts.  CD uses automated testing to prevent code regression when new code is introduced and can actually often replace manual code reviews.  Rolling deployments involves activating new code within a live environment.  A CD pipeline must be able to stop a deployment in the event that some sort of breaking code changes are deployed.  An effective CD pipeline will have real time monitoring and alerts that provide transparency into the health of the overall system and specifically into the before and after state of new code deployments.  A few CD best practices that maximize its influence on a system are test-driven development, single method of deployment, and containerization.  Test-driven development involves defining behavioral specifications for software features before development of the software begins and writing automated tests that match the specifications.  The deliverable code is then written to satisfy the test cases and match the specifications.  This practice ensures that all new code is covered by automated testing.  Single method deployment streamlines the deployment of sotware under the umbrella of CD and prohibits developers from manually copying code to production or live editing code partitions.  This keeps the whole system in a harmony.  Containerization is the process of making sure that a software behaves the same across every possible platform that it might be deployed on.  Containers can be integrated within the CD framework, assuring that the code will behave the same way on the developer's machine as it will throughout the automated testing cycle and on the client-side.  
- Continuous Delivery (CD also...)
  - Continuous Delivery is a synthesis of some of the strongest historical aspects of software development organizational practices.  CD centers a software organization on a streamlined, automated approach to releasing software products.  The core foundational principle underlying CD is an iterative feedback loop whereby a company releases a useable software product as soon as possible and proceeds to fine-tune the product through repeatedly incorporating hands on feedback into new iterations of the product.  A few of the hallmarks of CD are repeatability, automation, version control, build in quality, do the hardest parts first and everyone is responsible.  Typically a CD environment will follow a prescribed playbook; this acts as a list of tasks that must be repeated for every software project.  Often these playbooks are committed to software scripts, which ensures consistency and repeatability.  Having a consistent, repeatable process enhances software reliability and quality.  Human time is expensive and any manual processes that can be performed automatically through computer code helps to keep programmers free to spend their time more conservatively on creativity and productivity.  CD strives to streamline as much as possible through automation; tests, releases, configuration changes, etc.  Any serious software project must have version control itegrated within.  In addition to providing an optimal forum for collaboration among team members, version control provides "undo" functionality where designers can rollback to previous software releases if necessary.  This makes the code production process much less intractable.  A natural overflow of CD is that quality enhancement gets cemented into the system through the relentless feedback loop.  Where before software teams would produce a software project and pitch it on down the road to the QA department without much concern for the overall quality, now CD introduces a constant re-examination of the quality of the product at hand.  CD stresses doing the hardest parts first as a way of alleviating long term disasters and stresses by consciously identifying and addressing any potential weaknesses in the organizational process right away.  This makes for a much smoother development lifecycle.      
- Infrastructure as Code (IaC)
  -  Infrastructure as Code is an IT infastructure management process that applies the core DevOps software development strategies to the management of cloud infastructure resources like virtual machines, networks, load balancers and databases.  IaC is a configuration tool that codifies an organization's infastructure resources into text files and commits them to a version control system.  Once an organization has committed its resources to a version control system, it can utilize the functionality of CI/CD practices to further enhance the infastructure's development.  IaC helps cloud system infastructures from suffering from "environment drift," which occurs when the development stages within the various cloud system environments (development, staging, production) becomes out of sync.  This happens easily when the whole production process is left to the manual nature of traditional workflows.  IaC provides checkpoints and version control that ensures a holistic consistency and oversight that keeps the totality of the infastructure much more in tact.  A few dependencies that IaC requires are remote accessible hosting, configuration management platform, and a version control system.  The configuration management tool must connect to and modify the remote host system.  A configuration management platform is a tools suite that connects to the Infastructure As A Service APIs to automate common tasks.  The configuration management platform uses text files to declare tasks and sequences for the platform to execute which are stored on a version control system where they can be reviewed and updated.   
- Build Pipeline (part of CI)
  -  The Build Pipeline is the first phase within CI.  It begins when the developers write the intial lines of code and commit them to a version control system.  With each iteration of code, the developers gain an updated version tag. When developers push their code to the version control repository, this triggers the build phase and initiates the compiler into gathering all features of the code and its dependencies and compiling them into a new build.  After a new build is established, it gets thoroughly tested.  The most crucial aspect of the testing is unit testing where individual components of the source code are tested.  Once a build has passed all of its tests, the code is ready to be sent to the release pipeline.      
- Release Pipeline (part of CD)
  -  The Release Pipeline is the process within CD that facilitates taking committed code into production.  An effective release pipeline requires a means of triggering the pipeline to run, a means of executing the release tasks, a means of controlling the flow of execution, and a storehouse for artefacts, metadata and configurations.  A release pipeline trigger can be one or more events, such as a code commit, a manual trigger or a scheduled trigger.  The key release pipeline tasks include infastructure provisioning (ensuring that the test environment is configured correctly), application deployment (taking the packaged software and deploying it onto specific infastructure instances), testing, infastructure shutdown (if the infastructure being used is virtual, after running a test phase shutting down the infastructure will save costs).  Having a storehouse to save artefacts, configurations and metadata allows developers to adequately track their progress and reference previous software versions when necessary.     
- Configuration Management
  -  Configuration Management refers to the process in which all environments hosting software are configured and maintained.  Every development pipeline requires multiple environments for multiple purposes with an ever-increasing level of specificity.  Accurate configuration allows all system resources to function effectively.  Having a quality configuration management system in place requires meticulous care and all configuration changes must be regularly tracked to make sure that they are traceable.  Configuration management requires configuration identification, configuration control, and configuration audit.  Configuration identification invovles defining the specific configuration of the various environments to be maintained.  Configuration control involves initiating a mechanism to track and monitor changes to an environment's configuration.  Configuration audits at regular intervals act to catch any potential configuration environment changes that eluded the configuration control mechanisms. 


## Linux Setup
Let's get setup with Linux for the coming weeks. We have a few options to consider to find what 
will work best for you. 

#### Raspberry Pi
Pros: you already have this and are somewhat familiar with it.
Cons: It is non-Intel (where the cloud is Intel based) and it _might_ have some interesting 
challenges with docker. 

#### Cloud-based
Pros: Gets you into cloud sooner
Cons: Starts your free 12-months and $300 credit sooner (might not be a bad thing?). 
Frontloading learning, possibly distracting.

#### Linux Laptop
I have a really cheap laptop from China that I am not using that I can let you borrow if you 
would like. It has an Intel CPU and 6GB of RAM. It is not super powerful, but a bit more 
powerful than the Raspberry Pi and it is a laptop that doesn't require an external monitor,
keyboard, or mouse. It could also provide you with a platform to mess around with installing
other Linux operating systems if you would like.

Pros: Getting really comfortable with Linux
Cons: It's currently in Portland with plans on being back around the last weekend of Feb.

#### WSL
You can enable the Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL) on a Windows computer and install Ubuntu
in it. I would advise against running Docker in this, but it would work for everything else
that we are doing

Pros: use current hardware
Cons: Doesn't run Docker well

